# maintenance-of-health-records
Solutions to the security problems related to storing and sharing data using blockchain technology
A long standing problem in the medical fields is the proper management of health records. There has been a long wait for a way to make this process more efficient and secure and with the introduction of Blockchain technology to the scenario the answer may have finally arrived.
In the current scenario the Blockchain technology has found use in various fields. This technology can be used to completely evolve the entire health care system. The Blockchain has a very unique characteristic i.e. its versatility. It is both more transparent and secure than the currently existing system. In the current scenario the medical fields has become hinting ground for the cyber crimes. This is mostly due to the inefficient systems in use. The online portals and data storage processes employed by the hospitals are very vulnerable. Also since all the data is present in one single server it makes it very easy to tamper with. 
However the Blockchain technology shuts the door on all these problems. Since all the data on the Blockchain is visible to everyone who is a part of the network a user can have complete control over his or her data. Also9 because all the data present on the Blockchain network is cryptographically secured the data may be visible to everyone but only the owner can access and use the data. Also no third party can trace the dat back to its owner because of the use of cryptography. And as far as the problem of a single database goes the Blockchain provides a solution for it as well. The Blockchain has a decentralized structure. 
Thus at any point of time the exact same copy of the most updated Blockchain data is stored across multiple nodes. If anyone node tries to tamper or change any of the data present on its copy on the Blockchain all the remaining nodes will state that version of data to invalid. Thus the data present on the Blockchain remains tamper proof and secure. All these features of the Blockchain technology improve the current system at work and solve its issues.
